# Predicting Procrastination

## Introduction

The motiviation for this project came from my own personal struggles with procrastination and distraction. There exists many productivity apps out there to help people like me stay focused despite the seemingly infinite number of distractions that exist on the internet (*cough* Reddit *cough*). The problem is, most of these productivity apps block websites purely off URL with some sort of white/black list. In many cases this is good enough, but often times blocking an entire URL creates more problems than it solves. Youtube, for example, is one of the largest sources of distractions the internet has to offer, and it is built to keep you hooked the second you enter their website. It is typically the first site I block with any productivity app. However, YouTube also offers a wealth of knoweldge for math, data science, and programming tutorials. When googling a solution to a problem I will often find myself clicking on a YouTube link only to have my answer blocked! So I find myself at a crossroads: I can disable the app to watch the video I want to see, but run the risk of spiraling down a never ending path of cat videos; or I leave the app running and search for a less effective source for information. I should not have to choose. So I set out to find a better way.

Why not build a tool that reads the content of the page I am viewing to determine whether I am being productive or not? Instead of manually turning my app on an off I could dynamically block websites based on the content of the page. I can parse the raw HTML into a variety of descriptive n-grams and similar NLP features. From here I can classify my browsing history as either "productive" or "procastinating". Finally, I predict whether a brand new never before viewed page is a productive page or a procastinating page and block it accordingly. 

This repository is my exporation of exactly this idea. I made a very primative browser plug in that allowed me to classify my browsing history real time (now I could call my procrastination research!). I classified hundreds of web pages allowing me to collabrate a model to identify specifically the things that distract me.
